Adding documenation for pull request review standards (#82)
IMAP-Science-Operations-Center/imap_processing: docs/source/development/style-guide/review-standards.rst

.. _pull-request-review-standards:

Pull Request and Review Standards
---------------------------------

Before any code is merged into our code base, it will need to be put up for pull request (PR) and reviewed. The pull request should be created following
the :ref:`checklist for pull requests <checklist-for-contributors-and-reviewers-of-pull-requests>`.

Before opening pull request
===========================

Before you create the pull request, you should go through the :ref:`checklist for pull requests <checklist-for-contributors-and-reviewers-of-pull-requests>` to ensure
the proposed changes are required and up to our standards.

If you want to work on the pull request or are not yet finished with the code, please indicate this by marking the pull request as
`wip <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests>`_.
Anyone looking at the PR will be able to quickly see it is not yet ready for review.

> Finally, if you are addressing an existing issue, make sure that issue is linked in your PR. If there is not an existing issue, then you should either create an issue or address WHY you are opening the PR specifically.

Reviewer: We can all discuss this, but I think if the PR is an implementation for a level 5 requirement an issue needs to be created and linked to the PR. So there's some cases where just opening a PR without an issue and explaining in the PR is fine, but  I think a level 5 implementation or redesign of any kind should be a special case where an issue is required so we can easily keep track of the history of each level 5 by their linked sub-tasks.

Author: Ok, I do like that. I will add a note about specific requirements. I'd also be ok with requiring an issue period unless it's a documentation/ github workflow/pre commit PR, but I didn't want to make that change without discussing it with the team

During review
=============

As a reviewer, please follow these rules of thumb:

#. Comments should be clear in addressing why you want to see the change
#. Comments should be polite, but straightfoward and candid
#. If you leave a review, continue to follow up on replies to your questions or comments and review the changes you requested
#. It is polite, but not required, to provide examples for suggestions (particularly for things like name changes)

Before merging
==============

Before merging, a pull request needs one approving review. While the review is open, anyone can make comments or request changes on the PR.

Although only one approval is required, you must follow these rules:

> #. If there is someone with a particular expertise or vested interest in your changes, **do not merge or close the pull request until they get a chance to review.**

Reviewer: Should we set a rule of thumb for how long you should keep a PR open to give people time to review? Like 5 working days unless it's time sensitive or you get confirmation that no one else is planning to review?

Author: I do like that, although I think 5 is a little long. Maybe 3? It would be good to add a note that if you don't get any reviews after 3-4 days, to ping a reminder in the PR or in the slack channel, or ask the person who is closest to the issue/best reviewer.

Reviewer: Yeah 3 would be good. I just want to avoid a situation where someone gets a review and approval on the same day they open the PR, then merge it right away before others have a chance to look, so 3 days sounds good too.

.. _pull-request-review-standards:

Pull Request and Review Standards
---------------------------------

Before any code is merged into the code base, it will need to be put up for pull request (PR) and reviewed. The pull request should be created following
the :ref:`checklist for pull requests <checklist-for-contributors-and-reviewers-of-pull-requests>`.

Before opening a pull request

> ===========================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=============================
```
I think this is now too short. It'd be nice if we had the doc-build PRs linked for easy viewing, or maybe just running the sphinx builder with warnings as an extra test so it could log this out?

Before you create the pull request, you should go through the :ref:`checklist for pull requests <checklist-for-contributors-and-reviewers-of-pull-requests>` to ensure
the proposed changes meet the repository standards.

The PR should be as small as possible. However, the code included in the PR should be complete. It should complete an entire feature, but this doesn't necessarily mean it completes an entire issue.
However, all code merged into the ``dev`` branch should meet the repository standards and work as expected.

If you want to work on the pull request or are not yet finished with the code, please indicate this by marking the pull request as a
`draft or WIP <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests>`_ PR.

> Anyone looking at the PR will be able to quickly see it is not yet ready for review.

Reviewer 3: I feel like draft PR means it's not in final state but would like someone to give initial review.

Author: I added a clarification, does that better line up with what you're thinking?

Reviewer 3: yes. Thank you!

.. _pull-request-review-standards:

Pull Request and Review Standards
---------------------------------

> Before any code is merged into our code base, it will need to be put up for pull request (PR) and reviewed. The pull request should be created following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before any code is merged into the code base, it will need to be put up for pull request (PR) and reviewed. The pull request should be created following
```

Reviewer 2: @maxinelasp I think you missed some of these nits, or did you not want to accept them? I do sort of think we should avoid looking like dictating that this is "ours" and just go the generic route and talk about abstract "repository/organization" instead of people "us/our"

Author: Yes, apparently these commits got erased somehow during my last edit. Let me try and fix that

the :ref:`checklist for pull requests <checklist-for-contributors-and-reviewers-of-pull-requests>`.

> Before opening pull request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before opening a pull request
```

Reviewer 2: missed this one?

===========================

Before you create the pull request, you should go through the :ref:`checklist for pull requests <checklist-for-contributors-and-reviewers-of-pull-requests>` to ensure

> the proposed changes are required and up to our standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the proposed changes meet the repository standards.
```

The PR should be as small as possible. However, the code included in the PR should be complete. It should complete an entire feature, but this doesn't necessarily mean it completes an entire issue.

> However, all code merged into the ``dev`` branch should be up to our standards and work sufficiently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, all code merged into the ``dev`` branch should meet the repository standards and work as expected.
```

If you want to work on the pull request or are not yet finished with the code, please indicate this by marking the pull request as a
`draft or WIP <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests>`_ PR.
Anyone looking at the PR will be able to quickly see it is not yet ready for review.

> Finally, if you are addressing an existing issue, make sure that issue is linked in your PR. If there is not an existing issue, then you should either create an issue or address WHY you are opening the PR specifically.

Reviewer 2: Could you also give a description for how to link the PR or link to the documentation for how to add the specific keywords to close issues automatically?
https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword

If your PR addresses a `Level-5 requirement <https://github.com/orgs/IMAP-Science-Operations-Center/projects/2/views/2>`_, there **must** be a corresponding issue linked.

During review
=============

As a reviewer, please follow these rules of thumb:

#. Comments should be clear in addressing why you want to see the change

> #. Comments should be polite, but straightfoward and candid

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Comments should be polite, but straightforward and candid
```

#. If you leave a review, continue to follow up on replies to your questions or comments and review the changes you requested
#. It is polite, but not required, to provide examples for suggestions (particularly for things like name changes)
#. If you require a change to be addressed, add a "request changes" comment. If you make one of these comments, it means you are blocking the code review from merging until that change is addressed.

> #. If you make a "request changes" comment, you must create a follow up review where you change that to an approving review. Please do this in a timely matter so you do not block the PR for longer than necessary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. If you make a "request changes" comment, you must follow up and dismiss your "request changes" review once the author has addressed that aspect of the code. Please do this in a timely manner so you do not block the PR for longer than necessary
```

I am hesitant to say that I have to change it to an approving review. I have sometimes wanted to just dismiss my request changes, but still don't feel confident in fully approving a code change. e.g. if I was blocking a small portion like a name change, but I don't have enough expertise in the broader larger code changes to speak for an approval.

As an author:

#. If you would like to request a specific review from someone, make sure they are marked as a reviewer or called out in a comment on the review (by typing ``@<username>``)
#. You can request a review from the entire team or from a specific instrument team using the team ``IMAP-Science-Operations-Center/imap-sdc``

Before merging
==============

Before merging, a pull request needs one approving review. While the review is open, anyone can make comments or request changes on the PR.

Although only one approval is required, you must follow these rules:

#. If there is someone with a particular expertise or vested interest in your changes, **do not merge or close the pull request until they get a chance to review.**

> #. Do not merge until you have addressed all the comments on your review, even if you have an approval from someone.

Reviewer 2: This brings up two thoughts.
1. Are we approving too easily right now? Maybe we should save approvals for when we feel like it has addressed all of our comments?

2. Should we change from self-merging to reviewer-merging. i.e. we don't merge our own code, only a reviewer that thinks it is satisfactory would do that?

Author: I think leaving it as self-merging is fine. A reviewer might not know that, for example, I really want a review from someone specific but haven't gotten it yet.

What I was trying to express with this comment is that if Matthew gives me an approval, but Greg has outstanding comments, I should  not merge until I have addressed Greg's comments. 

I usually give an approval as a "when you fix this" type thing. If it's a minor change that I trust the author to make without needing another review, than I will give an approval, but I still want them to make the changes I suggested. In my opinion, even if the PR has approving reviews, the comments should still be addressed (where addressed means either fixed or replied to with why they will not be fixed). 

Do you or others have other opinions? I would worry about dragging out the review process for minor things - I think people won't approve something which they have larger concerns around. But if it's something minor, like suggesting additional documentation, then the reviewer doesn't necessarily need to go back and review a change after it happens. (e.g. if I say "please add a docstring here" then my approval stands for whatever docstring the author adds)

Reviewer 2: > I usually give an approval as a "when you fix this" type thing. If it's a minor change that I trust the author to make without needing another review, than I will give an approval, but I still want them to make the changes I suggested. In my opinion, even if the PR has approving reviews, the comments should still be addressed (where addressed means either fixed or replied to with why they will not be fixed).

I usually do the same, so I agree with this. This was mostly just a thought of "if we care enough about these things", but it sounds like possibly not, so lets let it organically evolve and only update this if we run into issues in the future.

#. Make sure you have left the review open for a sufficent amount of time to allow people to review - usually 3-5 days is enough.

> #. If someone asked for changes beyond a nitpick, do not merge until you have an approval or thumbs up from them. This does not mean you need to change your code if you don't agree with them, but you should explain why you will not be making the changes and make sure they are ok with merging anyway.

Reviewer 2: Nice, I like this description :)

#. You should go through the :ref:`pull request checklist <pertaining-to-the-code-review>`

> #. You should ensure ALL checks on the PR pass (tests are passing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. You should ensure ALL checks on the PR pass (tests are passing and no linting errors)
```
Do we want to call out linting specifically? Maybe to jargony though...

Author: I think it's covered under all checks personally, I mostly added the parentheses as a clarification for what "checks" means. I don't feel strongly about that though, you can commit this suggestion if you think it makes more sense.

Reviewer 2: Nope, this is fine with me!

> #. If you have a lot of commits, clean up the commits by running a `rebase <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Rebasing>`_ and combining commits.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to add something about this in the style guide and not just the PR guide? i.e. something about good self-contained commits and linking out to commit messages. Totally fine to leave this as a follow-up to add over there if you think it is worth it.

Author: I think that is a good suggestion, but out of scope for this document :) I will write up an issue to add that to the style guide.

#. At least one approval should come from the SDC team. Comments from external people should be treated the same way SDC comments are.

> After merging

Reviewer 2: Can this whole section be deleted if we follow the "linking PRs to automatically close issues"? And we are on forks, so no big deal for our team about removing branches if other people want to keep their stuff around.

Author: Yeah, that's a good point. I will make that change.
